after these deeds of faithfulness
after these deeds of faithfulness Sennacherib king of Assyria came and
Sennacherib king of Assyria came and
Sennacherib king of Assyria came and entered Judah he encamped against the
entered Judah he encamped against the
entered Judah he encamped against the fortified cities thinking to win them
fortified cities thinking to win them
fortified cities thinking to win them over to himself and when Hezekiah saw
over to himself and when Hezekiah saw
over to himself and when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and that his
that Sennacherib had come and that his
that Sennacherib had come and that his purpose was to make war against
purpose was to make war against
purpose was to make war against Jerusalem he consulted with his leaders
Jerusalem he consulted with his leaders
Jerusalem he consulted with his leaders and commanders to stop the water from
and commanders to stop the water from
and commanders to stop the water from the springs which were outside the city
the springs which were outside the city
the springs which were outside the city and they helped him thus many people
and they helped him thus many people
and they helped him thus many people gathered together who stopped all the
gathered together who stopped all the
gathered together who stopped all the springs and the brook that ran through
springs and the brook that ran through
springs and the brook that ran through the land why should the kings of Assyria
the land why should the kings of Assyria
the land why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water and he
come and find much water and he
come and find much water and he strengthened himself built up all the
strengthened himself built up all the
strengthened himself built up all the wall that was broken raised it up to the
wall that was broken raised it up to the
wall that was broken raised it up to the towers and built another wall outside
towers and built another wall outside
towers and built another wall outside also he repaired the Miller in the City
also he repaired the Miller in the City
also he repaired the Miller in the City of David and made weapons and shields in
of David and made weapons and shields in
of David and made weapons and shields in abundance then he sent military captains
abundance then he sent military captains
abundance then he sent military captains over the people gathered them together
over the people gathered them together
over the people gathered them together to him in the open square of the city
to him in the open square of the city
to him in the open square of the city gates and gave them encouragement be
gates and gave them encouragement be
gates and gave them encouragement be strong and courageous do not be afraid
strong and courageous do not be afraid
strong and courageous do not be afraid not dismayed before the king of Assyria
not dismayed before the king of Assyria
not dismayed before the king of Assyria know before all the multitude that is
know before all the multitude that is
know before all the multitude that is with him but there are more with us than
with him but there are more with us than
with him but there are more with us than with him with him is an arm of flesh but
with him with him is an arm of flesh but
with him with him is an arm of flesh but with us is the Lord our God to help us
with us is the Lord our God to help us
with us is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles the people were
and to fight our battles the people were
and to fight our battles the people were strengthened by the words of Hezekiah
strengthened by the words of Hezekiah
strengthened by the words of Hezekiah king of Judah
king of Judah
king of Judah after this Sennacherib king of Assyria
after this Sennacherib king of Assyria
after this Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem but he
sent his servants to Jerusalem but he
sent his servants to Jerusalem but he and all the forces with him laid siege
and all the forces with him laid siege
and all the forces with him laid siege against lakish to Hezekiah king of Judah
against lakish to Hezekiah king of Judah
against lakish to Hezekiah king of Judah and to all Judah who were in Jerusalem
and to all Judah who were in Jerusalem
and to all Judah who were in Jerusalem thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria in
thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria in
thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria in what do you trust that you remain under
what do you trust that you remain under
what do you trust that you remain under siege in Jerusalem does not Hezekiah
siege in Jerusalem does not Hezekiah
siege in Jerusalem does not Hezekiah persuade you to give yourselves over to
persuade you to give yourselves over to
persuade you to give yourselves over to die by famine and by thirst saying the
die by famine and by thirst saying the
die by famine and by thirst saying the Lord our God will deliver us from the
Lord our God will deliver us from the
Lord our God will deliver us from the hand of the king of Assyria has not the
hand of the king of Assyria has not the
hand of the king of Assyria has not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places
same Hezekiah taken away his high places
same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars and commanded Judah and
and his altars and commanded Judah and
and his altars and commanded Judah and Jerusalem saying you shall worship
Jerusalem saying you shall worship
Jerusalem saying you shall worship before one altar and burn incense on it
before one altar and burn incense on it
before one altar and burn incense on it do you not know what I and my father's
do you not know what I and my father's
do you not know what I and my father's have done to all the peoples of other
have done to all the peoples of other
have done to all the peoples of other lands were the gods of the nations of
lands were the gods of the nations of
lands were the gods of the nations of those lands in any way able to deliver
those lands in any way able to deliver
those lands in any way able to deliver their lands out of my hand
their lands out of my hand
their lands out of my hand who was there among all the gods of
who was there among all the gods of
who was there among all the gods of those nations that my father's utterly
those nations that my father's utterly
those nations that my father's utterly destroyed that could deliver his people
destroyed that could deliver his people
destroyed that could deliver his people from my hand that your God should be
from my hand that your God should be
from my hand that your God should be able to deliver you from my hand
able to deliver you from my hand
able to deliver you from my hand now therefore do not let Hezekiah
now therefore do not let Hezekiah
now therefore do not let Hezekiah deceive you or persuade you like this
deceive you or persuade you like this
deceive you or persuade you like this and do not believe
and do not believe
and do not believe for no God of any nation or Kingdom was
for no God of any nation or Kingdom was
for no God of any nation or Kingdom was able to deliver his people from my hand
able to deliver his people from my hand
able to deliver his people from my hand or the hand of my father's how much less
or the hand of my father's how much less
or the hand of my father's how much less will your God deliver you from my hand
furthermore his servant spoke against
furthermore his servant spoke against the Lord God and against his servant
the Lord God and against his servant
the Lord God and against his servant Hezekiah
Hezekiah
Hezekiah he also wrote letters to revile the Lord
he also wrote letters to revile the Lord
he also wrote letters to revile the Lord God of Israel and to speak against him
God of Israel and to speak against him
God of Israel and to speak against him as the gods of the nations of other
as the gods of the nations of other
as the gods of the nations of other lands have not delivered their people
lands have not delivered their people
lands have not delivered their people from my hand so the god of Hezekiah will
from my hand so the god of Hezekiah will
from my hand so the god of Hezekiah will not deliver his people from my hand then
not deliver his people from my hand then
not deliver his people from my hand then they called out with a loud voice in
they called out with a loud voice in
they called out with a loud voice in Hebrew to the people of Jerusalem who
Hebrew to the people of Jerusalem who
Hebrew to the people of Jerusalem who are on the wall to frighten them and
are on the wall to frighten them and
are on the wall to frighten them and trouble them that they might take the
trouble them that they might take the
trouble them that they might take the city and they spoke against the God of
city and they spoke against the God of
city and they spoke against the God of Jerusalem as against the gods of the
Jerusalem as against the gods of the
Jerusalem as against the gods of the people of the earth the work of men's
people of the earth the work of men's
people of the earth the work of men's hands now because of this King Hezekiah
hands now because of this King Hezekiah
hands now because of this King Hezekiah and the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz
and the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz
and the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz prayed and cried out to heaven when the
prayed and cried out to heaven when the
prayed and cried out to heaven when the Lord sent an angel who cut down every
Lord sent an angel who cut down every
Lord sent an angel who cut down every mighty man of Valor leader and captain
mighty man of Valor leader and captain
mighty man of Valor leader and captain in the camp of the king of Assyria so he
in the camp of the king of Assyria so he
in the camp of the king of Assyria so he returned shamefaced to his own land and
returned shamefaced to his own land and
returned shamefaced to his own land and when he had gone into the temple of his
when he had gone into the temple of his
when he had gone into the temple of his God some of his own offspring struck him
God some of his own offspring struck him
God some of his own offspring struck him down with a sword there thus the Lord
down with a sword there thus the Lord
down with a sword there thus the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of
saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of
saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib
Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib
Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria and from the hand of
the king of Assyria and from the hand of
the king of Assyria and from the hand of all others and guided them on every side
all others and guided them on every side
all others and guided them on every side and many brought gifts to the Lord at
and many brought gifts to the Lord at
and many brought gifts to the Lord at Jerusalem and presents to Hezekiah king
Jerusalem and presents to Hezekiah king
Jerusalem and presents to Hezekiah king of Judah so that he was exalted in the
of Judah so that he was exalted in the
of Judah so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations there
sight of all nations there
sight of all nations there after in those days Hezekiah was sick
after in those days Hezekiah was sick
after in those days Hezekiah was sick and near death and he prayed to the Lord
and near death and he prayed to the Lord
and near death and he prayed to the Lord and he spoke to him and gave him a sign
and he spoke to him and gave him a sign
and he spoke to him and gave him a sign but Hezekiah did not repay according to
but Hezekiah did not repay according to
but Hezekiah did not repay according to the favor shown him for his heart was
the favor shown him for his heart was
the favor shown him for his heart was lifted up
lifted up
lifted up therefore wrath was looming over him and
therefore wrath was looming over him and
therefore wrath was looming over him and over Judah and Jerusalem then Hezekiah
over Judah and Jerusalem then Hezekiah
over Judah and Jerusalem then Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his
humbled himself for the pride of his
humbled himself for the pride of his heart he and the inhabitants of
heart he and the inhabitants of
heart he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem so that the wrath of the Lord
Jerusalem so that the wrath of the Lord
Jerusalem so that the wrath of the Lord did not come upon in the days of
did not come upon in the days of
did not come upon in the days of Hezekiah Hezekiah had very great riches
Hezekiah Hezekiah had very great riches
Hezekiah Hezekiah had very great riches and honour and he made himself
and honour and he made himself
and honour and he made himself Treasuries for silver for gold for
Treasuries for silver for gold for
Treasuries for silver for gold for precious stones for spices for shields
precious stones for spices for shields
precious stones for spices for shields and for all kinds of desirable items
and for all kinds of desirable items
and for all kinds of desirable items storehouses for the harvest of grain
storehouses for the harvest of grain
storehouses for the harvest of grain wine and oil and stalls for all kinds of
wine and oil and stalls for all kinds of
wine and oil and stalls for all kinds of livestock and folds for flocks moreover
livestock and folds for flocks moreover
livestock and folds for flocks moreover he provided cities for himself and
he provided cities for himself and
he provided cities for himself and possessions of flocks and herds in
possessions of flocks and herds in
possessions of flocks and herds in abundance for God had given him very
abundance for God had given him very
abundance for God had given him very much property this same Hezekiah also
much property this same Hezekiah also
much property this same Hezekiah also stopped the water outlet of Apogee home
stopped the water outlet of Apogee home
stopped the water outlet of Apogee home and brought the water by tunnel to the
and brought the water by tunnel to the
and brought the water by tunnel to the west side of the City of David as a car
west side of the City of David as a car
west side of the City of David as a car prospered in all his works however
prospered in all his works however
prospered in all his works however regarding the ambassador's of the
regarding the ambassador's of the
regarding the ambassador's of the princes of Babylon whom they sent to him
princes of Babylon whom they sent to him
princes of Babylon whom they sent to him to enquire about the wonder that was
to enquire about the wonder that was
to enquire about the wonder that was down in the land God withdrew from him
down in the land God withdrew from him
down in the land God withdrew from him in order to test him that he might know
in order to test him that he might know
in order to test him that he might know all that was in his heart now the rest
all that was in his heart now the rest
all that was in his heart now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and His goodness
of the acts of Hezekiah and His goodness
of the acts of Hezekiah and His goodness indeed they are written in the vision of
indeed they are written in the vision of
indeed they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet the son of Amos and
Isaiah the prophet the son of Amos and
Isaiah the prophet the son of Amos and in the book of the kings of Judah and
in the book of the kings of Judah and
in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel
Israel
Israel so as a car rested with his father's and
so as a car rested with his father's and
so as a car rested with his father's and they buried him in the upper tombs of
they buried him in the upper tombs of
they buried him in the upper tombs of the sons of David and all Judah and the
the sons of David and all Judah and the
the sons of David and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at
inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at
inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at his death then Manasseh his son reigned
his death then Manasseh his son reigned
his death then Manasseh his son reigned in his place